# CS-300
Coursework for the CS-300: Analysis and Design course at SNHU.

1. What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
- The main problem we solved in the project for this course was determining what data structure was most appropriate to utilize. While all data structures would have effectively solved the problem and allowed for the project to be completed, there were both pros and cons to all of the data structures, so careful consideration needed to be made to ensure the best-fit data structure was selected.
2. How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
- To start with solving this problem, an understanding of the various pros and cons of the different data structures was carefully considered, and most importantly, the potential runtime of the algorithms needed within the project was measured for each data structure. Having comparable data for each data structure made the problem easier to comprehend and made the final decision easier. Even though it would have been possible to utilize any data structure within the project, their runtime and potential drawbacks could have greatly lengthened the development time of the project and potentially resulted in a project that is slow to use and difficult to maintain.
3. How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
- To help overcome any roadblocks while working on the project, taking the time to walk through each step of the various algorithms and functions made it easier to spot mistakes and issues. Instead of running into issues while programming and attempting to implement quick "fixes", taking the time to walk through the pseudocode and design plan helped to highlight the causes of the error and to allow the ability to fix it before programming began. Additionally, this approach made it easier to spot other mistakes while walking through the steps, and rather than having to deal with multiple issues at once, all of them were handled one at a time, which made them far less overwhelming and stressful.
4. How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
- By far, the biggest benefit I have received from working on this project when it comes to designing software is learning and understanding that the first solution that comes to mind might not always be the best. Instead of attempting to jump directly into programming, planning out and accounting for the main purpose of a project can help with finding the best approach to solving a problem. While some data structures or algorithms might take longer to develop and implement, it might be worthwhile if they can help provide a better user experience.
5. How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
- Working on this project has helped me focus on designing a project before beginning to code. Writing the pseudocode for the project and experiencing the benefits it has provided, like having an understanding of the project and knowing what steps will be taken to implement a solution, proves how useful it is to take the time to fully expand upon and understand the problem one is attempting to solve. In the end, this project has shown me how important it is to properly plan for projects, as it is not only helpful when one is assigned to a team for a project, but it even helps when working solo, as it allows one to properly understand the goal they are trying to accomplish.
